Lesson 1: it was really fun during class today. We got to finally finish unit 1 and start with unit 2. 
Our project this time is to make some sort of communication center and use morse code and binary to transfer text between those 
centers. It sounds and look really interesting, especially when we got to open and look at the arduino set for the first time,
and knowing that we will be working with it for this chapter.


What is the meaning of void?
- Void is the type for the result of a function that returns nothing. Void basically means " no type ", " no valule ", or " empty ".

Types of variables in arduino?
- Char
- Byte
- Int
- Unsigned int
- Long
- unsigned long
- Float
- Double
- String

In the next lesson, after having a test on the variables, we get to start working with buttons and LED lights. At first, I got
quite confused about how to work with the breadboard: where to plug the wires, which wires goes where, where to put the buttons, 
which end is positive, which end is negative. But after doing it multiple times and getting it sorted out, I realized that it 
is actually very easy to know where to connect the wires once you understand how the breadboard works. After that we learned how to use
the serial monitor to check the output of the program.

The serial monitor is very helpful when we want to know what the output will be, and therefore it is very good for debugging problems.
We learnt how to read a button input and from that turn the led lights on and off. We always use Tinkercad - a arduino online
simulator before actually putting the parts together to see if the program is working correctly and there are no errors. The
only disadvantage that we found on tinkercad so far is that we cannot press/hold 2 buttons at the same time, because there is
only 1 cursor. So we have to use the actual physical arduino board in order to test with the cases that involves 2 buttons
being pressed at the same time

We learned about a completely new thing to me today, it is logic gates. At first, me and the rest of the class finds this very 
confusing, probably the most confusing thing for me since the beginning of the year fot this subject. It is very helpful for
working with inputs and outputs when it comes to binary numbers. We did plenty of exercise: drawing graphs, making truth 
tables, applying it to arduino program. Comparing to not using logic gates method, a particular program will contains 
about 35 lines. But when we use logic gates for the same program, we only need about 5 lines to complete it, it is a 
significant difference.

After a few lessons of learning about logic gates, how to draw diagrams, truth tables, coming up with equations, I finally got
very familiar with it. And we started to program an input system that can display numbers from 0 to 7 using 7 led lights and 
3 buttons. The planning progress was very long as we have to come up with an input output table, coming up with equations for
EACH of the lights. Me, Arata and Filip were in the same group. And as Filip works with the wires and cabling, me and Arata 
start to come up with equations. The main problem was that as we were working on 3 different computers, we don't know if the 
code we were writing actually matches with the others. So in the end, when we put the code together, we realized that many parts
of the code were wrong. Then we figured out the problem quite easily, it is how we typed the binary equations on arduino was 
wrong, although we had the equations ready and right. After fixing it, the program works perfectly and we are now ready to 
set up using the actual arduino set.

Because of family business, Arata was away for this class. So it is only me and Filip working on getting the wires and cables 
together. We don't need much brain power for this one, just connecting the cables for the lights. But as there are 7 lights and
2 buttons to work with, this progress is actually not much easy. It took us very long to get the cables to connect accurately, 
but although we had our tinker cad program ready on our laptop, it is still very hard for us to see because we were using the 
small breadboard instead of the very big one. In the end of the class, finally, we got it done with and functioning just as we 
expected it to. We were very proud of ourselves to finish building this with a limited amount of time. But then for the other 
groups, people to work on it, we have to unplug all of the cables and return it into the set, and that also took so much time.


